roo-standalone/skills/mlai_points/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: mlai-points
description: Manage MLAI points system - check balance, book coworking, claim tasks, redeem rewards
trigger_keywords:
  - points
  - balance
  - coworking
  - book
  - task
  - tasks
  - reward
  - rewards
---

# MLAI Points System Skill

This skill enables Roo to interact with the MLAI Points System via API, allowing members to check their balance, book coworking days, claim and submit tasks, and redeem rewards.

## Capabilities

### Member Actions
- Check points balance and history
- View and claim open tasks
- Submit completed work for approval
- Book and cancel coworking days
- View rewards catalog and request redemptions

### Admin Actions (requires PointsAdmin role)
- Create new tasks with point values
- Approve or reject task submissions
- Award or deduct points manually
- Set coworking capacity overrides

## Parameters

- **action**: The action to perform (required) - e.g., "balance", "book", "claim", "submit", "award"
- **task_id**: Task ID number for task-related actions
- **date**: Date for coworking bookings (YYYY-MM-DD format)
- **points**: The number of points to award/deduct (integer)
- **reason**: A short description of why the points are being awarded
- **target_user**: The Slack User ID (e.g., U012ABC) or mention (e.g., <@U012ABC>) of the person receiving points. Look for the user mention immediately following words like "to" or "award". MUST NOT be a preposition or common word like "for", "to", "him", "her", "reason".
- **target_slack_id**: (Alias for target_user) The Slack User ID of the person receiving points
- **submission_text**: Description of work completed for task submissions
- **reward_code**: Code for reward redemption requests

## Command Recognition

Parse user messages to identify the action and parameters:

| Pattern | Action | Example |
|---------|--------|---------|
| `points balance` | balance | "What's my points balance?" |
| `points history` | history | "Show my point history" |
| `tasks`, `tasks open` | list_tasks | "What tasks are available?" |
| `task claim <id>` | claim_task | "I'll claim task 42" |
| `task submit <id> <text>` | submit_task | "Task 42 done, fixed the typo" |
| `coworking check <date>` | check_coworking | "Is there space on Dec 20?" |
| `coworking book <date>` | book_coworking | "Book me in for 2025-12-20" |
| `coworking cancel <date>` | cancel_coworking | "Cancel my booking for Friday" |
| `rewards` | list_rewards | "What rewards are available?" |
| `reward request <code>` | request_reward | "I want to get the HOTDESK_DAY reward" |
| `task create ...` | create_task | (Admin) "Create task: Fix docs, 3 points" |
| `task approve <id>` | approve_task | (Admin) "Approve task 42" |
| `points award @user +5 reason` | award_points | (Admin) "Give @sam 5 points for helping out" |

## Workflow

### Step 1: Identify Action
Parse the user's message to determine which action they want:
- Look for action keywords (balance, book, claim, etc.)
- Extract any IDs, dates, or amounts mentioned
- For admin actions, verify the Slack mention format

### Step 2: Permission Check
For admin-only actions (create, approve, award, deduct):
- The API will validate the requester's Slack ID
- If 403 returned, respond with friendly denial

### Step 3: Execute via API
Call the appropriate PointsClient method with extracted parameters.
- All API calls pass the requester's `slack_user_id` from the Slack event
- Never trust user-provided identity in message text

### Step 4: Format Response
Generate friendly response with relevant information:
- Balance: Show points count and encourage engagement
- Tasks: Format as numbered list with points and portfolio
- Bookings: Confirm date and show remaining balance
- Errors: Explain what went wrong and suggest alternatives

## Response Style

- Use Australian casual language (mate, no worries, ripper, legend)
- Celebrate achievements with emojis 🎉 🦘 ✨
- Be encouraging about earning points
- Keep responses concise but informative
- Use formatting (bold, lists) for clarity

## Example Responses

### Balance Check
```
G'day mate! Here's your points summary:

💰 **Current Balance:** 15 points
📈 **Lifetime Earned:** 42 points
📉 **Lifetime Spent:** 27 points

Nice work! Check out /tasks to earn more 🦘
```

### Task List
```
Here are the open tasks up for grabs:

1. **#42 - Fix typos in README** (3 pts) 📂 tech
2. **#43 - Design event banner** (5 pts) 📂 marketing
3. **#44 - Help with workshop setup** (2 pts) 📂 events

Keen to help? Just say "claim task 42" to get started!
```

### Coworking Booking Success
```
You beauty! 🎉

Booked you in for **20 Dec 2025** at the coworking space.
Cost: 1 point (Balance remaining: 14 points)

See you there, legend!
```

### Insufficient Balance
```
Ah sorry mate, looks like you're a bit short on points.

You need 1 point for coworking, but you've got 0.

Here are some ways to earn points:
• Check out open tasks with "@Roo tasks open"
• Volunteer at upcoming events
• Help out fellow community members

No worries, you'll get there! 💪
```

### Admin Denied
```
Sorry mate, you'll need to be a Points Admin to do that.

If you reckon you should have access, have a chat with the committee. 🤔
```

## Error Handling

| Error | Response |
|-------|----------|
| User not found | "Hmm, I can't find your account. Have you linked your Slack? Check with the team." |
| Insufficient balance | Show balance, explain cost, suggest earning opportunities |
| Task not open | "That task isn't available to claim right now (status: {status})" |
| No availability | "No spots left on {date}. Want to check another day?" |
| Network error | "Having trouble reaching the points system. Mind trying again in a tick?" |
| Permission denied | Friendly explanation, point to admins if they need help |

Commit message:

feat: Enable awarding points to multiple users and enhance bot's own mention cleaning.

roo-standalone/skills/mlai_points/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: mlai-points
description: Manage MLAI points system - check balance, book coworking, claim tasks, redeem rewards
trigger_keywords:
  - points
  - balance
  - coworking
  - book
  - task
  - tasks
  - reward
  - rewards
---

# MLAI Points System Skill

This skill enables Roo to interact with the MLAI Points System via API, allowing members to check their balance, book coworking days, claim and submit tasks, and redeem rewards.

## Capabilities

### Member Actions
- Check points balance and history
- View and claim open tasks
- Submit completed work for approval
- Book and cancel coworking days
- View rewards catalog and request redemptions

### Admin Actions (requires PointsAdmin role)
- Create new tasks with point values
- Approve or reject task submissions
- Award or deduct points manually
- Set coworking capacity overrides

## Parameters

- **action**: The action to perform (required) - e.g., "balance", "book", "claim", "submit", "award"
- **task_id**: Task ID number for task-related actions
- **date**: Date for coworking bookings (YYYY-MM-DD format)
- **points**: The number of points to award/deduct (integer)
- **reason**: A short description of why the points are being awarded
- **target_user**: A single Slack User ID (e.g., U012ABC) or mention (e.g., <@U012ABC>) of the person receiving points. For single-user awards.
- **target_users**: A list of Slack User IDs extracted from mentions for multi-user awards. Extract ALL <@U...> patterns from the message. Example: ["U012ABC", "U034DEF"] or ["<@U012ABC>", "<@U034DEF>"]
- **target_slack_id**: (Alias for target_user) A single Slack User ID
- **submission_text**: Description of work completed for task submissions
- **reward_code**: Code for reward redemption requests

## Command Recognition

Parse user messages to identify the action and parameters:

| Pattern | Action | Example |
|---------|--------|---------|
| `points balance` | balance | "What's my points balance?" |
| `points history` | history | "Show my point history" |
| `tasks`, `tasks open` | list_tasks | "What tasks are available?" |
| `task claim <id>` | claim_task | "I'll claim task 42" |
| `task submit <id> <text>` | submit_task | "Task 42 done, fixed the typo" |
| `coworking check <date>` | check_coworking | "Is there space on Dec 20?" |
| `coworking book <date>` | book_coworking | "Book me in for 2025-12-20" |
| `coworking cancel <date>` | cancel_coworking | "Cancel my booking for Friday" |
| `rewards` | list_rewards | "What rewards are available?" |
| `reward request <code>` | request_reward | "I want to get the HOTDESK_DAY reward" |
| `task create ...` | create_task | (Admin) "Create task: Fix docs, 3 points" |
| `task approve <id>` | approve_task | (Admin) "Approve task 42" |
| `points award @user +5 reason` | award_points | (Admin) "Give @sam 5 points for helping out" |

## Workflow

### Step 1: Identify Action
Parse the user's message to determine which action they want:
- Look for action keywords (balance, book, claim, etc.)
- Extract any IDs, dates, or amounts mentioned
- For admin actions, verify the Slack mention format

### Step 2: Permission Check
For admin-only actions (create, approve, award, deduct):
- The API will validate the requester's Slack ID
- If 403 returned, respond with friendly denial

### Step 3: Execute via API
Call the appropriate PointsClient method with extracted parameters.
- All API calls pass the requester's `slack_user_id` from the Slack event
- Never trust user-provided identity in message text

### Step 4: Format Response
Generate friendly response with relevant information:
- Balance: Show points count and encourage engagement
- Tasks: Format as numbered list with points and portfolio
- Bookings: Confirm date and show remaining balance
- Errors: Explain what went wrong and suggest alternatives

## Response Style

- Use Australian casual language (mate, no worries, ripper, legend)
- Celebrate achievements with emojis 🎉 🦘 ✨
- Be encouraging about earning points
- Keep responses concise but informative
- Use formatting (bold, lists) for clarity

## Example Responses

### Balance Check
```
G'day mate! Here's your points summary:

💰 **Current Balance:** 15 points
📈 **Lifetime Earned:** 42 points
📉 **Lifetime Spent:** 27 points

Nice work! Check out /tasks to earn more 🦘
```

### Task List
```
Here are the open tasks up for grabs:

1. **#42 - Fix typos in README** (3 pts) 📂 tech
2. **#43 - Design event banner** (5 pts) 📂 marketing
3. **#44 - Help with workshop setup** (2 pts) 📂 events

Keen to help? Just say "claim task 42" to get started!
```

### Coworking Booking Success
```
You beauty! 🎉

Booked you in for **20 Dec 2025** at the coworking space.
Cost: 1 point (Balance remaining: 14 points)

See you there, legend!
```

### Insufficient Balance
```
Ah sorry mate, looks like you're a bit short on points.

You need 1 point for coworking, but you've got 0.

Here are some ways to earn points:
• Check out open tasks with "@Roo tasks open"
• Volunteer at upcoming events
• Help out fellow community members

No worries, you'll get there! 💪
```

### Admin Denied
```
Sorry mate, you'll need to be a Points Admin to do that.

If you reckon you should have access, have a chat with the committee. 🤔
```

## Error Handling

| Error | Response |
|-------|----------|
| User not found | "Hmm, I can't find your account. Have you linked your Slack? Check with the team." |
| Insufficient balance | Show balance, explain cost, suggest earning opportunities |
| Task not open | "That task isn't available to claim right now (status: {status})" |
| No availability | "No spots left on {date}. Want to check another day?" |
| Network error | "Having trouble reaching the points system. Mind trying again in a tick?" |
| Permission denied | Friendly explanation, point to admins if they need help |
